Ki Yung Ahn

First the committee want to congratulate you on a much improved thesis
proposal. The committee was impressed with the much greater scope of the
related work section and the elaboration of the broader scope in which
the proposed work lies. But there is still considerable concern over
several issues.


1) First the lack of polish on the submitted document is still a
concern. Improved use of English grammar is a requirement of future
documents.

2) As voiced by Mark Jones, the "Big Picture" of the thesis story, as
Mark called it, needs  considerable elaboration. What is the problem?
What is the solution? How will you tell if your solution solves the
problem? How does it fit in the context of the larger picture.

3) There was some concern that the document was very vague about what
the actual technical content would be. What formalizations will be in
the thesis, What proofs will you expect to prove? What kinds of examples
do you expect? The was also concern that the document was over
ambitious. What would the minimal contents of a good thesis be? What
might you focus on to achieve this minimum?

The committee voted to pass you on the proposal, but in order to address
the above concerns the committee has agreed on the following non-
standard requirements.

1) The committee expects you will find and use a copy editor on future
work. This person should read all documents before submission, and
adequate time should be allotted to fixing the copy editor's concerns
about writing and English usage before submission. This person could be
a professional, a friend, another student, as long as they can help you
improve the readability of your documents.

2) The committee expects a "mid-course" document that elaborates on the
concerns 2 and 3 above. This document could be drafts of chapters, or a
separate document, as long as it is vetted by a copy editor, and
addresses the concerns 2 and 3. The committee is wants to be sure that
the thesis will be focused, balanced and complete. This document is
meant to give the committee a heads up on what to expect in the thesis.
This should be submitted to the committee by February 10, 2012.

3) In order to ensure that you get enough time to incorporate feedback
into the thesis. You will submit drafts of the thesis to the committee,
and obtain their comments, and incorporate feedback into the document.
This must be completed, and you must receive verbal approval from the
full committee before the defense date is even scheduled.

The committee emphasizes that these non-standard requirements are meant
to help you improve your research product, and would look amiss if you
do not fulfill them.

The committee is excited about the original direction of the work, but
also concerned about the feasibility of some of your claims. The
requirements are meant to help, in a positive manner, to steer you to a
defensible and significant piece of research.  We all applaud the fact
that you are tackling a very hard problem in a new and unique way,
perhaps breaking with many years of established thought.  We wish you
luck, and each of us stands available to help you when you need it. 

